README.md, before:

# srlinux-poc
Playing about with Nokia SRLinux

## How to use me!
1. install containerlab
2. stand up the lab instance

`sudo containerlab deploy --topo zur1.yml`

```
+----+-------------------------------+--------------+----------------------------------------+-------+---------+-----------------+-----------------------+
| #  |             Name              | Container ID |                 Image                  | Kind  |  State  |  IPv4 Address   |     IPv6 Address      |
+----+-------------------------------+--------------+----------------------------------------+-------+---------+-----------------+-----------------------+
|  1 | clab-zur1-pods-cr1            | be255e03427b | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.7/24  | 2001:172:20:20::7/64  |
|  2 | clab-zur1-pods-cr2            | 30422041d98f | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.14/24 | 2001:172:20:20::e/64  |
|  3 | clab-zur1-pods-cr3            | e4e69fa7af9e | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.11/24 | 2001:172:20:20::b/64  |
|  4 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab1-srv1 | 279110513cbc | ghcr.io/hellt/network-multitool:latest | linux | running | 172.20.20.4/24  | 2001:172:20:20::4/64  |
|  5 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab2-srv1 | acb6e5c86956 | ghcr.io/hellt/network-multitool:latest | linux | running | 172.20.20.5/24  | 2001:172:20:20::5/64  |
|  6 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab3-srv1 | dd77ca034a71 | ghcr.io/hellt/network-multitool:latest | linux | running | 172.20.20.12/24 | 2001:172:20:20::c/64  |
|  7 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf1       | 9042d96a9b0c | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.6/24  | 2001:172:20:20::6/64  |
|  8 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf2       | 0a9f01d9fc4e | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.15/24 | 2001:172:20:20::f/64  |
|  9 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf3       | d376aaab3349 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.16/24 | 2001:172:20:20::10/64 |
| 10 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf4       | 183bfb29149d | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.10/24 | 2001:172:20:20::a/64  |
| 11 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf5       | bf871385fa6c | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.9/24  | 2001:172:20:20::9/64  |
| 12 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf6       | db36c52b9e65 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.8/24  | 2001:172:20:20::8/64  |
| 13 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp1       | 62c1383183a2 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.13/24 | 2001:172:20:20::d/64  |
| 14 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp2       | e12066ff0d40 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.2/24  | 2001:172:20:20::2/64  |
| 15 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp3       | 37b23e311b4b | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.3/24  | 2001:172:20:20::3/64  |
+----+-------------------------------+--------------+----------------------------------------+-------+---------+-----------------+-----------------------+
```

3. deploy the configs

`./config_zur1.sh`

4. check underlay is working

`show network-instance default route-table`

```
A:pod1-lf1# show network-instance default route-table
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IPv4 unicast route table of network instance default
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+--------------------------------------------+-------+------------+----------------------+----------------------+----------+---------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
|                   Prefix                   |  ID   | Route Type |     Route Owner      |        Active        |  Metric  |  Pref   |      Next-hop (Type)      |    Next-hop Interface     |
+============================================+=======+============+======================+======================+==========+=========+===========================+===========================+
| 169.254.1.0/30                             | 3     | local      | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | 169.254.1.2 (direct)      | ethernet-1/49.0           |
| 169.254.1.2/32                             | 3     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.1.3/32                             | 3     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (broadcast)          |                           |
| 169.254.1.254/32                           | 6     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.1.255/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.2.0/30                             | 4     | local      | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | 169.254.2.2 (direct)      | ethernet-1/50.0           |
| 169.254.2.2/32                             | 4     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.2.3/32                             | 4     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (broadcast)          |                           |
| 169.254.2.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.2.255/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.3.0/30                             | 5     | local      | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | 169.254.3.2 (direct)      | ethernet-1/51.0           |
| 169.254.3.2/32                             | 5     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.3.3/32                             | 5     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (broadcast)          |                           |
| 169.254.3.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.3.255/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.3.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.4.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.5.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.6.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
+--------------------------------------------+-------+------------+----------------------+----------------------+----------+---------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IPv4 routes total                    : 18
IPv4 prefixes with active routes     : 18
IPv4 prefixes with active ECMP routes: 5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
5. check ibgp overlay-l2

_this is showing the three (one per leaf pair) servers in vrf-1. this works when you first spawn the lab, but since there is no persistent traffic, these will age out. you might have to jump on one srv1 and ping another one to put traffic on the fabric_

```docker exec -it clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab1-srv1 ping -c3 192.168.0.2```

```
A:pod1-lf1# show network-instance vrf-1 bridge-table mac-table all
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mac-table of network instance vrf-1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------+------------+----------------+---------+--------+----------------------------------------------------+
|      Address       |                    Destination                     | Dest Index |      Type      | Active  | Aging  |                    Last Update                     |
+====================+====================================================+============+================+=========+========+====================================================+
| AA:C1:AB:16:41:9E  | vxlan-interface:vxlan1.1 vtep:169.254.5.254 vni:1  | 1846748785 | evpn           | true    | N/A    | 2023-03-06T21:03:47.000Z                           |
|                    |                                                    | 40         |                |         |        |                                                    |
| AA:C1:AB:3A:2A:59  | vxlan-interface:vxlan1.1 vtep:169.254.3.254 vni:1  | 1846748785 | evpn           | true    | N/A    | 2023-03-06T21:07:28.000Z                           |
|                    |                                                    | 42         |                |         |        |                                                    |
| AA:C1:AB:9E:BC:9B  | ethernet-1/1.0                                     | 2          | learnt         | true    | 300    | 2023-03-06T21:07:25.000Z                           |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------+------------+----------------+---------+--------+----------------------------------------------------+
Total Irb Macs                 :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Static Macs              :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Duplicate Macs           :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Learnt Macs              :    1 Total    1 Active
Total Evpn Macs                :    2 Total    2 Active
Total Evpn static Macs         :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Irb anycast Macs         :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Proxy Antispoof Macs     :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Reserved Macs            :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Eth-cfm Macs             :    0 Total    0 Active
```

6. check ibgp overlay-l3
7. check erb gateways are reachable
8. check leaf to core adjacencies are up
9. check reachability

---

# helpful commands!

## talk to the env
### get to a shell
#### srl box cli
`docker exec -it clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp1 sr_cli`

#### srv shell
`docker exec -it clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab1-srv1 bash`

### config management
#### "manually" push a yaml config to an srl box
`gnmic -a clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf1 --timeout 30s -u admin -p NokiaSrl1! -e json_ietf --skip-verify set --update-path / --update-file configs/pod1-lf1.yml`

----

## operational commands
### check vxlan tunnels
`info from state tunnel vxlan-tunnel`

### kick bgp
#### with kaboom
`tools network-instance default protocols bgp group underlay reset-peer`

#### no kaboom
`tools network-instance default protocols bgp soft-clear`

Commit message:

update readme to include the sros licence note

README.md, after:

# srlinux-poc
Playing about with Nokia SRLinux

### pre-req
this uses a SROS image for the edge router. this requires a licence file to work. make sure you add the licence file as `sros-vm.lic` and that this is __NEVER__ committed to the repo. 

## How to use me!
1. install containerlab
2. stand up the lab instance

`sudo containerlab deploy --topo zur1.yml`

```
+----+-------------------------------+--------------+----------------------------------------+-------+---------+-----------------+-----------------------+
| #  |             Name              | Container ID |                 Image                  | Kind  |  State  |  IPv4 Address   |     IPv6 Address      |
+----+-------------------------------+--------------+----------------------------------------+-------+---------+-----------------+-----------------------+
|  1 | clab-zur1-pods-cr1            | be255e03427b | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.7/24  | 2001:172:20:20::7/64  |
|  2 | clab-zur1-pods-cr2            | 30422041d98f | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.14/24 | 2001:172:20:20::e/64  |
|  3 | clab-zur1-pods-cr3            | e4e69fa7af9e | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.11/24 | 2001:172:20:20::b/64  |
|  4 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab1-srv1 | 279110513cbc | ghcr.io/hellt/network-multitool:latest | linux | running | 172.20.20.4/24  | 2001:172:20:20::4/64  |
|  5 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab2-srv1 | acb6e5c86956 | ghcr.io/hellt/network-multitool:latest | linux | running | 172.20.20.5/24  | 2001:172:20:20::5/64  |
|  6 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab3-srv1 | dd77ca034a71 | ghcr.io/hellt/network-multitool:latest | linux | running | 172.20.20.12/24 | 2001:172:20:20::c/64  |
|  7 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf1       | 9042d96a9b0c | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.6/24  | 2001:172:20:20::6/64  |
|  8 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf2       | 0a9f01d9fc4e | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.15/24 | 2001:172:20:20::f/64  |
|  9 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf3       | d376aaab3349 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.16/24 | 2001:172:20:20::10/64 |
| 10 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf4       | 183bfb29149d | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.10/24 | 2001:172:20:20::a/64  |
| 11 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf5       | bf871385fa6c | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.9/24  | 2001:172:20:20::9/64  |
| 12 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf6       | db36c52b9e65 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.8/24  | 2001:172:20:20::8/64  |
| 13 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp1       | 62c1383183a2 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.13/24 | 2001:172:20:20::d/64  |
| 14 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp2       | e12066ff0d40 | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.2/24  | 2001:172:20:20::2/64  |
| 15 | clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp3       | 37b23e311b4b | ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux:latest           | srl   | running | 172.20.20.3/24  | 2001:172:20:20::3/64  |
+----+-------------------------------+--------------+----------------------------------------+-------+---------+-----------------+-----------------------+
```

3. deploy the configs

`./config_zur1.sh`

4. check underlay is working

`show network-instance default route-table`

```
A:pod1-lf1# show network-instance default route-table
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IPv4 unicast route table of network instance default
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+--------------------------------------------+-------+------------+----------------------+----------------------+----------+---------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
|                   Prefix                   |  ID   | Route Type |     Route Owner      |        Active        |  Metric  |  Pref   |      Next-hop (Type)      |    Next-hop Interface     |
+============================================+=======+============+======================+======================+==========+=========+===========================+===========================+
| 169.254.1.0/30                             | 3     | local      | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | 169.254.1.2 (direct)      | ethernet-1/49.0           |
| 169.254.1.2/32                             | 3     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.1.3/32                             | 3     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (broadcast)          |                           |
| 169.254.1.254/32                           | 6     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.1.255/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.2.0/30                             | 4     | local      | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | 169.254.2.2 (direct)      | ethernet-1/50.0           |
| 169.254.2.2/32                             | 4     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.2.3/32                             | 4     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (broadcast)          |                           |
| 169.254.2.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.2.255/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.3.0/30                             | 5     | local      | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | 169.254.3.2 (direct)      | ethernet-1/51.0           |
| 169.254.3.2/32                             | 5     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (extract)            | None                      |
| 169.254.3.3/32                             | 5     | host       | net_inst_mgr         | True                 | 0        | 0       | None (broadcast)          |                           |
| 169.254.3.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.3.255/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.3.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.4.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.5.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
| 169.254.6.254/32                           | 0     | bgp        | bgp_mgr              | True                 | 0        | 170     | 169.254.1.0/30            | ethernet-1/49.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          | ethernet-1/50.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.2.0/30            | ethernet-1/51.0           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | 169.254.3.0/30            |                           |
|                                            |       |            |                      |                      |          |         | (indirect/local)          |                           |
+--------------------------------------------+-------+------------+----------------------+----------------------+----------+---------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IPv4 routes total                    : 18
IPv4 prefixes with active routes     : 18
IPv4 prefixes with active ECMP routes: 5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
5. check ibgp overlay-l2

_this is showing the three (one per leaf pair) servers in vrf-1. this works when you first spawn the lab, but since there is no persistent traffic, these will age out. you might have to jump on one srv1 and ping another one to put traffic on the fabric_

```docker exec -it clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab1-srv1 ping -c3 192.168.0.2```

```
A:pod1-lf1# show network-instance vrf-1 bridge-table mac-table all
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mac-table of network instance vrf-1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------+------------+----------------+---------+--------+----------------------------------------------------+
|      Address       |                    Destination                     | Dest Index |      Type      | Active  | Aging  |                    Last Update                     |
+====================+====================================================+============+================+=========+========+====================================================+
| AA:C1:AB:16:41:9E  | vxlan-interface:vxlan1.1 vtep:169.254.5.254 vni:1  | 1846748785 | evpn           | true    | N/A    | 2023-03-06T21:03:47.000Z                           |
|                    |                                                    | 40         |                |         |        |                                                    |
| AA:C1:AB:3A:2A:59  | vxlan-interface:vxlan1.1 vtep:169.254.3.254 vni:1  | 1846748785 | evpn           | true    | N/A    | 2023-03-06T21:07:28.000Z                           |
|                    |                                                    | 42         |                |         |        |                                                    |
| AA:C1:AB:9E:BC:9B  | ethernet-1/1.0                                     | 2          | learnt         | true    | 300    | 2023-03-06T21:07:25.000Z                           |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------+------------+----------------+---------+--------+----------------------------------------------------+
Total Irb Macs                 :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Static Macs              :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Duplicate Macs           :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Learnt Macs              :    1 Total    1 Active
Total Evpn Macs                :    2 Total    2 Active
Total Evpn static Macs         :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Irb anycast Macs         :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Proxy Antispoof Macs     :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Reserved Macs            :    0 Total    0 Active
Total Eth-cfm Macs             :    0 Total    0 Active
```

6. check ibgp overlay-l3
7. check erb gateways are reachable
8. check leaf to core adjacencies are up
9. check reachability

---

# helpful commands!

## talk to the env
### get to a shell
#### srl box cli
`docker exec -it clab-zur1-pods-pod1-sp1 sr_cli`

#### srv shell
`docker exec -it clab-zur1-pods-pod1-cab1-srv1 bash`

### config management
#### "manually" push a yaml config to an srl box
`gnmic -a clab-zur1-pods-pod1-lf1 --timeout 30s -u admin -p NokiaSrl1! -e json_ietf --skip-verify set --update-path / --update-file configs/pod1-lf1.yml`

----

## operational commands
### check vxlan tunnels
`info from state tunnel vxlan-tunnel`

### kick bgp
#### with kaboom
`tools network-instance default protocols bgp group underlay reset-peer`

#### no kaboom
`tools network-instance default protocols bgp soft-clear`
